The BJP is continuously reinventing its politics. This reinvention can be observed both in developmental and cultural politics. The party is trying to mobilise cultural memories and use them to raise developmental consciousness as well as for political mobilisation. While it is true that these strategies do not always succeed, the continuous invention of new strategies shows a vibrancy in the politics of Hindutva: Usually, such vibrancy dies when a party remains in power for a substantial period. Since Hindutva politics from its beginnings fed its politics largely from the cultural sphere, the party now appears more competent in using cultural issues than its rivals. It has several times used cultural memories, icons and myths to spread its ideology and win influence.The politics of Hindutva tried to carve a space for its idea of cultural nationalism by evoking a pyramid of icons and cultural symbols. The base of this pyramid emerges through their work with religious symbols like Rama, Krishna and Buddha. At the second level, it has explored the symbolism of medieval kings — who defeated or fought Muslim “intruders” — such as Raja Suheldev, Gokul Jat, Baldeo Pasee, etc. Simultaneously, it is exploring the marginalised aspects of the Gandhian-Nehruvian national movement and incorporating them into its own larger discourse of cultural nationalism. The BJP and Hindutva forces are constantly appropriating as many icons and legacies as they can for their political garland. The major strategy of this management of memories of Hindutva politics is to explore marginalised and oppressed narratives within the secular meta-narrative of society, culture and politics and retell them. If someone closely watches the politics of the BJP and Hindutva family, they may understand that they have identified “memory zones” based on the influence of heroic symbols — such as Suheldev in central and eastern UP and Gokul Jat in western UP. Based on these memory zones, the BJP-led government and party plan activities around “memorial politics”. They are also exploring caste and community-based heroes and icons to facilitate their politics among certain communities.